# Happy-HR-Thesis-Project-web-api

In modern world, data scraping is one of the most powerful tools in software engineering field. Different kind of services can be automated using web crawling techniques. In this thesis, I will briefly introduce the automation of the process in recruitment services agencies using information scraping method. It is an indisputable fact that, in today’s world, most of the job seekers and human resources specialists use technological advantages of digital era for finding job and hiring relevant employees, respectively. However, in this thesis, I will mainly focus on the recruitment side of the process. As it is crystal clear, HR specialists and managers hire employees based on technical tests, non-technical and technical interviews, small sized real case problem solving (or project) and etc. Nevertheless, the most decisive point in employee hiring is the first stage, which is CV screening. Most of the candidates are eliminated in the first step of the process. That is why, human resource specialists need to screen more resumes to find enough candidates for vacant positions. It is also true that, candidates can place their CVs in different web sites or social media platforms (LinkedIn is the most prominent one) which accumulates huge amount of data. Therefore, we can use this big data to help us in decision making of candidate hiring process. More in detail, we can scrape these resumes and store them into one or multiple databases and using sophisticated filters, we can access needed part of this data.
As we finished with the conceptual analysis part, I want to mention a little bit about the technical part of the project. Firstly, we need to scrape data from the internet using different web crawling techniques and tools. Most prominent ones for this purpose are JSoup (Java) and BeautifulSoup (Python). At this point, I found myself in a dilemma for choosing JSoup or BeautifulSoup. However, JSoup was decided because the backend part of the project will also build on Java. As it comes to the backend part, Spring Framework (Java) can be better choice for our case because of its advantages of loose coupling (through dependency injection), boilerplate reduction (through aspects and templates) and etc. For the frontend part, I will go with the conventional way by using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript triple. In terms of database management system (or simply RDBMS), PostgreSQL is planned to be used. The main reasons behind choosing Postgres are being open source, no licence costs, scalability, reliability and others. 
